My Portfolio
AJ Olic

-- 1 of 14 --

Table of
Contents
About Me
Work Experience
Supersonic Rivet Deformation
Challenger Model
Contact information

-- 2 of 14 --

About Me
I am a 3rd year mechanical engineering student at
Northeastern University, studying with a minor in
aerospace engineering. Professionally, my goal is to be at
the forefront of the engineering industry.
Throughout my academic experience, I have had numerous
professional experiences, including internships spanning
from architecture to electrical engineering, and a co-op
with a wide variety of disciplines.
I’ve loved engineering for as long as I can remember. It
provides the unique opportunity to solve complex
challenges with critical thinking.
I am currently involved in Northeastern’s Fixed Wing club,
where we are building multiple RC planes from scratch.
Outside of Academics I am an avid traveler (visiting 60
countries across 6 continents), as well as a soccer fanatic,
participating as a coach, player, and referee.

-- 3 of 14 --

Work Experience
MPR Associates
Engineering Co-op, Fall 2025
Summit Engineers
Electrical Engineering Intern, Summer 2022, Summer 2024
Given the nature of my work, I am unable to share examples of my work due to signed NDA’s.
Stantec
Summer Intern, Summer 2021

-- 4 of 14 --

Supersonic Rivet Deformation (1/3)
Background:
In my Aeronautical Propulsion class over the summer in Seattle, we
were tasked with making a project our choice that involved using
ANSYS.
Objective:
The goal was to explore how rivet protrusions impact the
aerodynamics and fuel efficiency for supersonic commercial travel.
Additionally, we wanted to exemplify how smooth surface are
imperative to efficient designs for the new era of commercial jets.
This was done at a chord of 1 m near the wingtip of the Concorde.
Velocity Vectors along airfoil.
Concorde Design with chord highlighted.

-- 5 of 14 --

Supersonic Rivet
Deformation: (2/3)
My Contribution:
I was responsible for conducting prior research and modelling the
airfoil with rivet protrusions.
Historical studies were used to influence our predictions, and they
yielded input into how different sized rivets would impact the
pressure, drag, and lift coefficients at subsonic speed.
To simulate rivet deformation, I created an array of arcs along the
Concorde airfoil in AutoCAD, ensuring it was all one polyline. I then
imported the .dwg file into SolidWorks to create a part in order to
define geometry. I then uploaded the 3D part into ANSYS and used
the face to define a 2D boundary box around the airfoil.
AutoCAD model of airfoil with rivets.
Mesh generated for airfoil with rivets.

-- 6 of 14 --

Supersonic Rivet
Deformation: Results (3/3)
Results:
The most substantial results were modelling clean
airfoil at supersonic conditions.
Initially, the upper and lower surfaces were mistakenly
kept as “walls.” This was not the initial goal, but it
validated prior knowledge regarding stagnation point
predictions, oblique shockwave behavior, and inlet
shockwave reflections
Correct boundary conditions yielded the expected
stagnation point and shockwaves, mimicking known
wave patterns.
Mach number contour with improper boundary conditions.
Velocity magnitude contour.
Static temperature contour with proper boundary conditions.

-- 7 of 14 --

Lasercut Challenger
Model (1/3)
Background:
For my freshman engineering capstone 1
class, we were tasked with designing a visual
and interactive project to teach an
engineering tragedy using AutoCAD, C++, and
an Arduino.
Goal:
My group decided on the Challenger crash,
where the user would go through a series of
activities to learn about what caused this
disaster.
Completed Challenger Game.

-- 8 of 14 --

Lasercut Challenger
Model (2/3)
My Contribution:
To design the model, I first defined the key components that
would be imperative to capture the essence of the space
shuttle. These included the delta wings, the fuselage, the
vertical tail, the engines, and the nose.
When iterating designs, I found that having one base
component for all other pieces to connect to worked the
best, so I moved forward with this using mortise and tenon
joints.
The margin of error for the laser cutter was inconsistent
between uses, which forced me to create a sizing template
to ensure the joints would properly connect
To ensure the model would work as intended, I modelled a
shrunken version that included all key components,
confirming each portion worked as intended.
All components for Laser cutting, shown in AutoCAD.

-- 9 of 14 --

Lasercut Challenger Model (3/3)
Results:
The resulting model
accurately depicted the
Challenger space shuttle.
This successfully intertwined
with the rest of the project,
where the model was a tool
for users to complete a
system check of the shuttle.
This project furthered my
skills in 2D design, and I
gained hands-on experience
with laser cutting.
Completed Challenger Model.

-- 10 of 14 --

Autonomous Temperature Sensor (1/3)
Background:
During my semester in London, we were tasked with
designing a robot to improve our lives. Given the lack of
centralized heating and AC, we wanted to create a
solution to solve this problem.
Goal:
The goal of this project was to design a robot that could
automatically adjust the radiator nozzle based on a
preset temperature. This was done by building a robot
that would sit on top of the nozzle and use a temperature
sensor to track the deviation from the current
temperature to the ideal temperature.
Temperature sensor demonstration.

-- 11 of 14 --

Autonomous Temperature Sensor (2/3)
My contribution:
I served as project leader and spearheaded the
design process.
I designed a 3D-printed enclosure to house the
electronic components (temperature sensor,
LCD, DC motor, motor driver, battery pack).
Developed an efficient control algorithm that
checks temperature every 10 minutes to
optimize battery life. Encountered and resolved
challenges, such as unidirectional motor
movement due to incomplete power
connections, and improved torque by upgrading
to a stronger DC motor with a gear train.
Conducted tests by clamping the valve and
ensuring proper height alignment for optimal
performance. Arduino wiring.
LCD Display
DC Motor
Temperature
Sensor
Channel
Driver Arduino

-- 12 of 14 --

Autonomous Temperature Sensor (3/3)
Results:
We successfully developed a working
prototype that could autonomously
adjust the radiator temperature.
This demonstrated an improved ease of
use compared to manual adjustments,
benefiting individuals with mobility
limitations.
We also identified areas for future
improvement, including better wire
management, component integration,
and a universal attachment for
compatibility with various radiator types.
Completed temperature sensor (open box).

-- 13 of 14 --

Contact Me!
olic.a@northeastern.edu
https://www.linkedin.com/in/aleksandar-
olic/
Email: olic.a@northeastern.edu
LinkedIn:
https://www.linkedin.com/in/aleksandar-
olic/
Phone Number: (703) 362-8956

-- 14 of 14 --

